W-10590448-batch-v44-take2-duke (#2231)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime: modules/ROOT/pages/batch-processing-concept.adoc

[NOTE]
Batch processing is exclusive to Mule Enterprise runtimes.

Mule batch processing components are designed for reliable, asynchronous processing of larger-than-memory data sets.

For example, you can use batch processing when:

* Synchronizing data sets between business applications, such as syncing contacts between NetSuite and Salesforce.
* Extracting, transforming and loading (ETL) information into a target system, such as uploading data from a flat file (CSV) to Hadoop.
* Handling large quantities of incoming data from an API into a legacy system.

image::batch-main3.png[]

> Within a Mule application, batch jobs automatically split source data into individual records and group the records into blocks containing a configurable number of records. Batch jobs process the records according to instructions you configure through Mule components and operations within one or more steps of the each job. You can aggregate and upsert processed records to other systems or queues. When batch processing is complete, the batch job reports results, including any failures. Batch components provide mechanisms for handling errors that occur during the batch job. Internally, persistent queues that store unprocessed records enable batch jobs to resume processing at a point of failure if your Mule application crashes or redeploys while processing records. 

Author: ```suggestion
Within a Mule application, batch jobs automatically split source data into individual records and group the records into blocks containing a configurable number of records. Batch jobs process the records according to instructions you configure through Mule components and operations within one or more steps of the each job. You can also aggregate processed records, for example, when upserting them to other systems or queues. When batch processing is complete, the batch job reports results, including any failures. 

Batch components provide mechanisms for handling errors that occur during the batch job. Internally, persistent queues that store unprocessed records enable batch jobs to resume processing at a point of failure if your Mule application crashes or redeploys while processing records. 
```
